<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>VI</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-6" epub:type="chapter">
			

THE SECOND OF NOVEMBER 

1902 


295 





THE SECOND OF NOVEMBER 

1902 


I woke sharply and suddenly from a dream 
in that empty room. It was Grizzlebeard 
that had put his hand upon my shoulder. 
The late winter dawn was barely glimmer¬ 
ing, and there was mist upon the heath 
outside and rime upon the windows. 

I woke and shuddered. For in my dream 
I had come to a good place, the place inside 
the mind, which is all made up of remem¬ 
brance and of peace. Here I had seemed 
to be in a high glade of beeches, standing 

297 




















298 THE PLACE IN THE MIND 


on soft, sweet grass on a slope very high 
above the sea; the air was warm and the 
sea was answering the sunlight, very far 
below me. It was such a place as my own 
Downs have made for me in my mind, but 
the Downs transfigured, and the place was 
full of glory and of content, height and 
great measurement fit for the beatitude of 
the soul. Nor had I in that dream any 
memory of loss, but rather a complete end 
of it, and I was surrounded, though I could 
not see them, with the return of all those 
things that had ever been my own. But 
this was in the dream only; and when I 
woke it was to the raw world and the 
sad uncertain beginnings of a little winter 
day. 

Grizzlebeard, who had woken me, said 
gravely : 

“We must be up early. Let us waken 
the others also, and take the road, for we 
are near the end of our journey. We have 
come to the term and boundary of this 
short passage of ours, and of our brief com¬ 
panionship, for we must reach the County 



MY COMPANIONS RISE 299 


border in these early hours. So awake, and 
waken the others.” 

Then I woke the other two, who also 
stirred and looked wearily at the thin, grey 
light, but rose in their turn, and then I said 
to Grizzlebeard: 

“ Shall we not eat before we start to the 
place after which we shall not see each other 
any more ? ” 

But he said, “No, we have but a little 
way to go, and when we have gone that 
little way together, we will break a crust 
between us, and pledge each other if you 
will, and then we shall never see each other 
any more.” 

The others also said that this was the way 
in which the matter should be accomplished. 

Yielding to them, therefore (for I perceived 
that they were greater than I), we went out 
into the morning mist and walked through 
it sturdily enough, but silent, the sounds of 
our footsteps coming close into our ears, 
blanketed and curtained by the fog. For a 
mile and second mile and a third no one 
of us spoke a word to another. But as I 


300 


WE BREAK BREAD 


walked along I looked furtively first to one 
side and then to the other, judging my com¬ 
panions, whom chance had given me for these 
few hours ; and it seemed to me (whether from 
the mist or what not) that they were taller 
than men; and their eyes avoided my eyes. 

When we had come to Treyford, Grizzle- 
beard, who was by dumb assent at this 
moment our leader, or at any rate certainly 
mine, took that lane northward which turns 
through Redlands and up to the hill of 
Elstead and its inn. Then for the first 
time he spoke and said : 

“ Here we will break a loaf, and pledge 
each other for the last time.” 

Which we did, all sitting quite silent, and 
then again we took the road, and went for¬ 
ward as we had gone forward before, until 
we came to Harting. And when we came 
to Harting, just in the village street of it, 
Grizzlebeard, going forward a little more 
quickly, drew with him his two companions, 
and they stood before me, barring the road 
as it were, and looking at me kindly, but 
halting my advance. 



THEY WILL. NOT STAY 301 


I said to them, a little afraid, “ Do you 
make for our parting now? We are not 
yet come to the county border!” 

But Grizzlebeard said (the others keeping 
silent) :— 

“Yes. As we met upon this side of the 
county border, so shall we part before we 
cross it. Nor shall you cross it with us. 
But these my companions and I, when we 
have crossed it must go each to our own 
place: but you are perhaps more fortunate, 
for you are not far from your home.” 

When he had said this, I was confused to 
wonder from his voice and from the larger 
aspect of himself and his companions, whether 
indeed they were men. 

“. . . And is there,” I said, “ in all the 
county another such company of four; shall 
I find even one companion like any of you ? 
Now who is there to-day that can pour out 
songs as you can at every hour and make up 
the tunes as well ? And even if they could 
so sing, would any such man or men be of one 
faith with me ? 

“ Come back with me,” I said, “ along the 


302 NOR LINGER WITH ME 


crest of the Downs; we will overlook to¬ 
gether the groves at Lavington and the 
steep at Bury Combe, and then we will 
turn south and reach a house I know of 
upon the shingle, upon the tide, near where 
the Roman palaces are drowned beneath the 
Owers; and to-night once more, and if you 
will for the last time, by another fire we 
will sing yet louder songs, and mix them 
with the noise of the sea.” 

But Grizzlebeard would not even linger. He 
looked at me with a dreadful solemnity and said: 

“No; we are all three called to other 
things. But do you go back to your home, 
for the journey is done.” 

Then he added (but in another voice); 
“ There is nothing at all that remains: nor 
any house; nor any castle, however strong; 
nor any love, however tender and sound; 
nor any comradeship among men, however 
hardy. Nothing remains but the things of 
which I will not speak, because we have 
spoken enough of them already during these 
four days. But I who am old will give you 
advice, which is this—to consider chiefly from 


FOR ALL THINGS END 303 


now onward those permanent things which 
are, as it were, the shores of this age and 
the harbours of our glittering and pleasant 
but dangerous and wholly changeful sea.” 

When he had said this (by which he meant 
Death), the other two, looking sadly at me, 
stood silent also for about the time in which 
a man can say good-bye with reverence. Then 
they all three turned about and went rapidly 
and with a purpose up the village street. 

I watched them, straining my sad eyes, but 
in a moment the mist received them and they 
had disappeared. 

• • • • • 

I went up in gloom, by the nearest spur, 
on to the grass and into the loneliness of the 
high Downs that are my brothers and my 
repose; and, once upon their crest, setting 
my face eastward I walked on in a fever for 
many hours back towards the places from 
which we had come; and below me as I went 
was that good landscape in which I had passed 
such rare and memorable hours. 

I still went on, through little spinnies here 
and there, and across the great wave tops and 


304 I FOLLOW THE CREST 

rolls of the hills, and as the day proceeded 
and the light declined about me I still went 
on, now dipping into the gaps where tracks 
and roads ran over the chain, now passing for 
a little space into tall and silent woods wher¬ 
ever these might stand. And all the while 
I came nearer and nearer to an appointed spot 
of which a memory had been fixed for years 
in my mind. But as I strode, with such a 
goal in view, an increasing loneliness oppressed 
me, and the air of loss and the echo of those 
profound thoughts which had filled the last 
words we four had exchanged together. 

It was in the grove above Lavington, near 
the mounds where they say old kings are 
buried, that I, still following the crest of my 
hills, felt the full culmination of all the twenty 
tides of mutability which had thus run to¬ 
gether to make a skerry in my soul. I saw 
and apprehended, as a man sees or touches a 
physical thing, that nothing of our sort 
remains, and that even before my county 
should cease to be itself I should have left 
it. I recognised that I was (and I confessed) 
in that attitude of the mind wherein men 


OF THE DOWNS ALONE 805 

admit mortality; something had already 
passed from me — I mean that fresh and 
vigorous morning of the eyes wherein the 
beauty of this land had been reflected as in 
a tiny mirror of burnished silver. Youth was 
gone out apart; it was loved and regretted, 
and therefore no longer possessed. 

Then, as I walked through this wood more 
slowly, pushing before me great billows of 
dead leaves, as the bows of a ship push the 
dark water before them, this side and that, 
when the wind blows full on the middle of 
the sail and the water answers loudly as the 
ship sails on, so I went till suddenly I remem¬ 
bered with the pang that catches men at the 
clang of bells what this time was in Novem¬ 
ber ; it was the Day of the Dead. All that 
day I had so moved and thought alone and 
fasting, and now the light was falling. I had 
consumed the day in that deep wandering on 
the heights alone, and now it was evening. 
Just at that moment of memory I looked up 
and saw that I was there. I had come upon 
that lawn which I had fixed for all these 
hours to be my goal. 

It is the great platform just over Barl’ton. 


306 THE EVENING GATHERS 

whence all the world lies out before one. East¬ 
ward into the night for fifty miles stretched 
on the wall of the Downs, and it stretched 
westward towards the coloured sky where a 
full but transfigured daylight still remained. 
Southward was the belt of the sea, very broad, 
as it is from these bare heights, and absolutely 
still; nor did any animal move in the brush¬ 
wood near me to insult the majesty of that 
silence. Northward before me and far below 
swept the Weald. 

The haze had gone; the sky was faint and 
wintry, but pure throughout its circle, and 
above the Channel hung largely the round of 
the moon, still pale, because the dark had not 
yet come. 

But though she had been worshipped so 
often upon such evenings and from such a 
place, a greater thing now moved and took 
me from her, and turning round I looked 
north from the ridge of the steep escarpment 
over the plain to the rivers and the roofs 
of the Weald. I would have blessed them 
had I known some form of word or spell which 
might convey an active benediction, but as I 


OVER ALL THE WEALD 307 

knew none such, I repeated instead the list of 
their names to serve in place of a prayer. 

The river Arun, a valley of sacred water; 
and Amberley Wild brook, which is lonely 
with reeds at evening; and Burton Great 
House, where I had spent nights in November; 
and Lavington also and Hidden Byworth; 
and Fittleworth next on, and Egdean Side, all 
heath and air ; and the lake and the pine trees 
at the mill; and Petworth, little town. 

All the land which is knit in with our flesh, 
and yet in which a man cannot find an acre 
nor a wall of his own. 

I knew as this affection urged me that verse 
alone would satisfy something at least of that 
irremediable desire. I lay down therefore at 
full length upon the short grass which the 
sheep also love, and taking out a little stump 
of pencil that I had, and tearing off the back 
of a letter, I held my words prepared. 

My metre, which at first eluded me (though 
it had been with me in a way for many hours) 
was given me by these chance lines that came: 

n . , . and therefore even youth that dies 
May leave of right its legacies.’* 


308 


A PIECE OF VERSE 


I put my pencil upon the paper, doubtfully 
and drew little lines, considering my theme. 
But I would not long hesitate in this manner, 
for I knew that all creation must be chaos 
first, and then gestures in the void before it 
can cast out the completed thing. So I put 
down in fragments this line and that; and 
thinking first of how many children below 
me upon that large and fruitful floor were 
but entering what I must perforce abandon, 
I wrote down: 

“ . . . and of mine opulence I leave 
To every Sussex girl and boy 
My lot in universal joy.” 

Having written this down, I knew clearly 
what was in my mind. 

The way in which our land and we mix up 
together and are part of the same thing 
sustained me, and led on the separate parts 
of my growing poem towards me ; introducing 
them one by one; till at last I wrote down 
this further line: 

“ One with our random fields we grow.” 

And since I could not for the moment fill in 


IS WRITTEN AND 809 

the middle of the verse, I wrote the end, 
which was already fashioned: 

“ . . . because of lineage and because 
The soil and memories out of mind 
Embranch and broaden all mankind." 


Ah 1 but if a man is part of and is rooted 
in one steadfast piece of earth, which has 
nourished him and given him his being, and 
if he can on his side lend it glory and do it 
service (I thought), it will be a friend to him 
for ever, and he has outflanked Death in a way. 

“ And I shall pass ’’ (thought I), " but this shall stand 
Almost as long as No-Man’s Land.” 

“ No, certainly,” I answered to myself aloud, 
“ he does not die! ” Then from that phrase 
there ran the fugue, and my last stanzas stood 
out clear at once, complete and full, and I 
wrote them down as rapidly as writing can go. 

“ He does not die ” (I wrote) " that can bequeath 
Some influence to the land he knows, 

Or dares, persistent, interwreath 

Love permanent with the wild hedgerows ; 

He does not die, but still remains 
Substantiate with his darling plains. 


310 I COME TO MY HOME 


“ The spring’s superb adventure calls 
His dust athwart the woods to flame; 

His boundary river’s secret falls 
Perpetuate and repeat his name. 

He rides his loud October sky : 

He does not die. He does not die. 


" The beeches know the accustomed head 
Which loved them, and a peopled air 
Beneath their benediction spread 
Comforts the silence everywhere ; 

For native ghosts return and these 
Perfect the mystery in the trees. 


“ So, therefore, though myself be crosst 
The shuddering of that dreadful day 
When friend and fire and home are lost 
And even children drawn away— 

The passer-by shall hear me still, 

A boy that sings on Duncton Hill.” 


Full of these thoughts and greatly relieved 
by their metrical expression, I went, through 
the gathering darkness, southward across the 
Downs to my home. 

		</section>
	</body>
</html>
