<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>List of Illustrations</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="backmatter">
		<nav id="loi" epub:type="loi">
			<h2 epub:type="title">List of Illustrations</h2>
			<ol>
				<li>
					<p>
						<a href="frontispiece.xhtml#illustration-1">Grayscale sketch of a landscape of rolling hills, fields, and forest stretching off into the distance, with several leafless trees on the far left in the foreground.</a>
					</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>
						<a href="epigraph.xhtml#illustration-2">Three measures of musical notation on the treble clef, with no time signature, in the key of C, with lyrics underneath the notes, “And I will sing Golier.”</a>
					</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>
						<a href="dedication.xhtml#illustration-3">Three measures of musical notation on the treble clef, with the Common Time symbol, in the key of C.</a>
					</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>
						<a href="preface.xhtml#illustration-4">Sketch looking down into a valley, with two hills into the distance to the left and right. A small tree is in the foreground to the far left, and a distant church steeple rises out of the left center of the valley.</a>
					</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>
						<a href="preface.xhtml#illustration-5">Sketch of a traditional four-sail tower windmill, with a tree on the far right in the foreground. The top branches of the tree reach over and frame the windmill.</a>
					</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>
						<a href="chapter-1.xhtml#illustration-6">A map of Sussex, titled “<span xml:lang="la">Regni Regnorum</span>.” Various locations are labeled in Latin, others in English.</a>
					</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>
						<a href="chapter-1.xhtml#illustration-7">Sketch of an inn or public house at a corner of a cobbled street. A second building, perhaps a stable, is across the street to the left, with several trees going off into the distance along the road.</a>
					</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>
						<a href="chapter-1.xhtml#illustration-8">Sketch of cliffs overlooking a body of water.</a>
					</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>
						<a href="chapter-2.xhtml#illustration-9">Grayscale sketch of a landscape with a single tree without leaves in the left foreground, at the shore of a body of water. A rough forest is in the distance to the right. Small lines of fog or clouds are in the background.</a>
					</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>
						<a href="chapter-2.xhtml#illustration-10">Sketch of a winding path going up and around a small embankment, with two trees at the top.</a>
					</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>
						<a href="chapter-2.xhtml#illustration-11">Sketch of a central clearing in a thick woods, with a small hut in the left rear, and trees all around.</a>
					</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>
						<a href="chapter-3.xhtml#illustration-12">Grayscale sketch of a landscape with brambles or underbrush in the foreground to the left. A farm field is in the foreground to the right. Trees are behind, fading off into the distance.</a>
					</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>
						<a href="chapter-3.xhtml#illustration-13">Sketch of a large tree trunk that splits into a Y shape about three quarters of the way up, fading at the top before most of the smaller branches. A small forest is behind to the left, and open fields to the right.</a>
					</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>
						<a href="chapter-3.xhtml#illustration-14">Sixteen measures of musical notation on the treble clef, with a ⁶⁄₈ time signature, in the key of F.</a>
					</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>
						<a href="chapter-3.xhtml#illustration-15">Twenty-nine measures of musical notation on the treble clef, with a ⁶⁄₈ time signature, in the key of D.</a>
					</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>
						<a href="chapter-3.xhtml#illustration-16">Twenty measures of musical notation on the treble clef, with a ⁶⁄₈ time signature, in the key of G.</a>
					</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>
						<a href="chapter-3.xhtml#illustration-17">Sketch of a leafless tree with a single large trunk splitting into many branches all at once, in a field with underbrush. A smaller, similar tree is in the distance to the left.</a>
					</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>
						<a href="chapter-4.xhtml#illustration-18">Grayscale sketch of a lake stretching into distant hills. A single tree stands in the foreground to the left, and several trees in the distance to the far right at the edge of the lake.</a>
					</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>
						<a href="chapter-4.xhtml#illustration-19">Sketch of a winding path leading to a small building with a stone foundation and two slate roof elevations. A tree is next to the building on the top left.</a>
					</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>
						<a href="chapter-4.xhtml#illustration-20">Nine measures of musical notation on the treble clef, with a ⁶⁄₈ time signature, in the key of C.</a>
					</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>
						<a href="chapter-4.xhtml#illustration-21">Map titled “The Battle of Battle 1st Position. About 7:30.” A railway is drawn and labeled horizontally at the top. A road crosses the railway, labeled “level crossing,” and turns southwest. An “Inn: with the King of Kent and his Staff” is marked along the road. Military formations are drawn, labeled “Men of Kent” and “Men of Sussex.” The “Men of Sussex” are at the south of the map, on top of a hill marked with elevation lines, and the “Men of Kent” are north below the hill, in front of the road and railway.</a>
					</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>
						<a href="chapter-4.xhtml#illustration-22">Map titled “The Battle of Battle 2nd Position: About ten minutes later.” The military formations from the previous illustration have been changed, showing the “Men of Sussex” to have routed the “Men of Kent” across the railway track, and two units of the “Men of Sussex” are approaching the inn.</a>
					</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>
						<a href="chapter-4.xhtml#illustration-23">Sketch of a stone arch bridge over a body of water. The bridge begins from the foreground in the right and ends in the distance in the center-left, with a hill in the background.</a>
					</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>
						<a href="chapter-4.xhtml#illustration-24">Sketch of a small arch stone bridge over a river, with two large tree trunks and one smaller tree behind the bridge on the left bank.</a>
					</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>
						<a href="chapter-4.xhtml#illustration-25">Sketch of a straight path of rectangular stones passing through a low wall. In the distance, the path passes a brick building on the left, and a low bushy tree on the right.</a>
					</p>-25
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>
						<a href="chapter-4.xhtml#illustration-26">Twenty-four measures of musical notation on the treble clef, with a ⁶⁄₈ time signature, in the key of G.</a>
					</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>
						<a href="chapter-4.xhtml#illustration-27">Five measures of musical notation on the treble clef, with a ¾ time signature, in the key of F.</a>
					</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>
						<a href="chapter-4.xhtml#illustration-28">Sketch of a steep hillside with underbrush on the top right. A cave or outcropping is in the center.</a>
					</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>
						<a href="chapter-5.xhtml#illustration-29">Sketch of a wooded landscape of evergreens on hills, with many clouds in the sky. A very tall evergreen is in the foreground on the left, towering over all of the smaller trees.</a>
					</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>
						<a href="chapter-5.xhtml#illustration-30">Sketch of a small pond or river with underbrush and trees along the far shore, with a hill in the distance.</a>
					</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>
						<a href="chapter-5.xhtml#illustration-31">Sketch of a walled garden, with a small tree on the left. A two story building with a steep roof sits to the right. Three puffy clouds over hills are in the distance, beyond the wall. The words “Time grows young in a garden” in small capital letters surround the drawing, and both the sketch and words are framed in a decorated border.</a>
					</p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</nav>
	</body>
</html>
